Add 4.x logs and backup info, small tweaks elsewhere (#958)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/apps/guides/hosting/4.x/backups.md

---
title: "Backups in CHT 4.x"
linkTitle: "Backups"

> weight: 330

Reviewer: Very specific!

Author: Hah! I just wanted to put the self hosted guides up top and the logs and backup on the bottom.  I hit with the `+10` which didn't work, so I hit it with the `+100` which finally did the trick ; )

description: >
    Which data to backup when hosting the CHT 4.x
---
{{% alert title="Note" %}}
This guide is about backups in CHT 4.x - there's the [self hosted guide for 3.x]({{< relref "apps/guides/hosting/3.x/self-hosting#backup" >}}) which includes backups for 3.x.
{{% /alert %}}

## Introduction 

As CHT 4.x uses a container per service, the only data that needs to be backed up is:

* CouchDB database
* Docker Compose and `.env` files 
* TLS certificates

> This is because Docker containers are inherently stateless so all the important binaries are already stored in [CHT's Docker images](https://gallery.ecr.aws/s5s3h4s7/).  Docker Compose files, including the `.env` file, store all of your deployment's configuration.  Finally, the TLS certificates should be backed up to ease recover speed.

Reviewer: Slight grammatical improvement?

```suggestion
This is because Docker containers are inherently stateless so all the important binaries are already stored in [CHT's Docker images](https://gallery.ecr.aws/s5s3h4s7/).  Docker Compose files, including the `.env` file, store all of your deployment's configuration.  Finally, the TLS certificates should be backed up to reduce recovery time.
```

If you run `docker volume ls` you should see something like this:

```
DRIVER    VOLUME NAME
local     cht_cht-credentials
local     cht_cht-ssl
```

**Note** - In the volumes listed above, there is no volume for CouchDB data.  This is because the compose file declares this as a [bind mount](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/). Bind mounts use the host file system directly and do not show up in `docker volume ls` calls.  It's therefore assumed your CouchDB data location is declared in `/home/ubuntu/cht/upgrade-service/.env` which sets it with `COUCHDB_DATA=/home/ubuntu/cht/couchdb`.

You should have SSH access to the server with `root` access.

### Backup software

It's assumed you are using which ever tool you're familiar with which might include [rsync](https://rsync.samba.org/examples.html), [borg](https://borgbackup.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) or other solution.  The locations of the backups should follow the 3-2-1 rule:

> There should be at least 3 copies of the data, stored on 2 different types of storage media, and one copy should be kept offsite, in a remote location. _- [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backup)_

## CouchDB

{{% alert title="Note" %}}

> CouchDB backups, by necessity, will have PII and PHI.  They should be safely stored to prevent unauthorized access.

Reviewer: I think we can expand on this and suggest that backups are encrypted. Even if we don't go into details on _how_ to do it we should be advocating for best practice.

Author: good thinking! fixed in 3f1fd4f

{{% /alert %}}

Assuming your CouchDB is stored in `/home/ubuntu/cht/couchdb`, you should use these steps to back it up:

> 1. Stop CouchDB.  This ensures when you back up the data files, you have a complete copy of all data in a known good state:

Reviewer: I don't think this is necessary, and we want people to take backups regularly, so will be highly disruptive. Official documentation here: https://docs.couchdb.org/en/stable/maintenance/backups.html

Author: good thinking! fixed in 3f1fd4f

   ```

## Docker Compose files

{{% alert title="Note" %}}
The `.env` file contains cleartext passwords.  It should be safely stored to prevent unauthorized access.
{{% /alert %}}

All compose files, and the corresponding `.env` file, are in these three locations:

* /home/ubuntu/cht/compose/*.yml
* /home/ubuntu/cht/upgrade-service/*.yml
* /home/ubuntu/cht/upgrade-service/.env

While all three of these are trivial to recreate by downloading them again, they may change over time so should be archived with your CouchDB data.  Further, when there's been a critical failure of a production CHT instance, you want to be sure to make the restore process as speedy as possible.

As all of these files are only read when Docker first loads a service, you can simply copy them whenever you want without stopping any of the CHT services.  They should be copied with the same frequency and put in the same location as the CouchDB data using the [backup software specified above]({{< relref "#backup-software" >}}).

## TLS certificates

{{% alert title="Note" %}}
The `.key` file is the private key for TLS certificate.  It should be safely stored to prevent unauthorized access.
{{% /alert %}}

> Like the compose files, the TLS certificate files can easily be regenerated or re-downloaded from you Certificate Authority, like Let's Encrypt for example. However, you want to have a backup of the at the ready to ease the restore process.

Reviewer: Typo.

```suggestion
Like the compose files, the TLS certificate files can easily be regenerated or re-downloaded from your Certificate Authority, like Let's Encrypt for example. However, you want to have a backup of the at the ready to ease the restore process.
```
